Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open up to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time.
Let your speech always
be with grace.
Seasoned with Saul that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
Ticulous of beloved brother of faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord will tell you all the news about me.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reading of the words.
You may be seated.
I don't generally get to come up this far, but you're not here.
I get to get closer to you all.
I like seeing your face now, and I can see you now.
You know why I like that?
Because it feels closer.
And being at a distance, I feel like we're detached from one another.
I feel more connected up here.
The reason I mention that is because it's very important when you walk in the church to feel like you connect.
You don't want to feel like you're on the outside looking in.
But you go to someone's house and you know that immediately you feel welcome.
That's important too, isn't it?
You feel it before anybody says the word.
It's just an inviting place.
Some businesses are really good at that too.
You walk in and you just go, I can relax.
Some places are not like that.
But you can, you know, when there's eye contact, there's laughter and just sense
that maybe people were actually expecting you, that they want you to come and they had prepared a place for you like Jesus said he would do in John 14.
It's the same way for a church.
Visitors, I hate this truth.
I mean, I don't just hate it, it bothers me, but it's still true.
Visitors don't remember the sermon most.
Did you know that?
They don't remember the sermon first and foremost.
What they remember
is the atmosphere and the mood in which the church was presented.
What it was like to be there, to be in person there.
I'm thinking, you know, you work hard on the sermon.
That's what they should know.
I can have a great sermon, but a bad atmosphere is going to say, well, I don't want to be at that church.
Or you can have a great atmosphere and a bad sermon.
You'll say the sermon when they go, man, I love the people.
So it's good to have both, but
The sermon doesn't trump the atmosphere and what people experience when they come.
And so I want you to know that when you think about what's important when you share about our church with others.
Good sermon, and he's okay, but man, people are great.
That's what people want to hear.
People are really loving the kind.
The truth is, before a person meets the pastor,
or gets to hear what he has to say, they get to know the spirit of the house of God first.
What kind of spirit is present?
I think we are a welcoming church.
Do you think so?
I think so.
I'm not saying that's hot.
We've got some space now.
Are you a welcoming person?
Do you see people out during the service or after to make sure you say hi?
I do that, you know, I don't know if you all know this, but every sudden I try to get everybody's hand, at least once, if not twice.
Sometimes I get it more than once, I can't remember whose hand I show, and I want to make sure I get everybody.
Not because I feel obligated, or I think it's my responsibility, but because this is an opportunity, when I shake your hand, if there's something going on, you can tell me.
And I can tell you something's going on with me, or if I have something to say to you, there's a private moment there.
And I like that.
But I want to make sure that everybody gets that opportunity.
And so I try to do that.
Now, this might be the only time, also, in the week that we get a chance to speak, or look each other in the eye and see how we're really doing.
So that also makes a difference to me, because I like to know how folks are doing.
And when I ask, hey, how's it going?
I don't mean, like, passing by how you're doing OK. That's not what I'm asking.
I'm asking, how are you doing?
Is there anything I need to know?
I mean, I can help, but that's exactly what I'm trying to do there.
I don't want to miss that opportunity.
That's why I do that.
It also fulfills Scripture.
Now, I didn't know that, but I've been doing this, and I like knowing how people are doing for years, but the Scripture in Romans 15, 7 says, therefore, receive one another.
Just as Christ also received does to the glory of God.
So I don't do it because it just means I do it because this matters to me.
And maybe that's the heart of God for you that God put in me.
There is a heart behind a welcome when people feel welcome.
And it's intentional.
Hospitality in the New Testament is one of those things that you may not know exactly what they're referring to.
And the stories get more depth to them when you understand what they view as hospitality.
It's not like we do it.
It's a lot different.
It still rings true today in many of the Middle Eastern cultures.
I had an opportunity many years ago to hear someone from Middle Eastern culture as a pastor here in the United States teach us about their idea of hospitality.
He told this story, I'll never forget it.
He said, one day his teenage son came up and said, Dad, can I bring my friend's home so over?
He said, who's his dad?
Who's his family?
And he told me, he said, Dad, I see you, all right?
Yeah, think I'm open.
And he said, Dad, why'd that matter?
He said, son, he's going to be in my table.
I wonder what kind of guy he is.
And besides, he eats in my table, I become responsible for him.
So, well, yeah, Dad, OK, fine, whatever.
But he'd come, right?
That's all I was worried about.
Well, turn it off.
His friend came.
They ate.
Friend went home.
He never thought anything about it until two weeks later.
Turns out he and his friend were running around and caught in trouble.
I don't remember exactly what it was, but they wound up in jail.
And as soon as you got in jail, the call was dead.
They get to one phone call.
Dead!
My friend and I were out doing stupid stuff.
We got in trouble.
We're in jail.
You come bail me out.
So I said, I'll be down there in a little bit.
He told his friend, yeah, just told Daddy he's coming to bail me out.
Just want to let you know.
So okay.
Well, my parents are out of town today, so I guess I'll see you later.
Well, when it came time for me to get out of jail, they walked down to the cell where they both were waiting, and they called both of them out.
And he looked at his friend and he said, who'd you call?
He said, I call anybody.
I wonder who's bailed you out.
They walk out of the jail and standing there, paid both of their multi-thousand dollar bond, or bail, excuse me.
What's his dad?
He said, Dad, I know you bailed me out, but who bailed him?
I said, I did.
Well, what do you mean?
Son, he ate at my table.
If he eats at my table, he's like one of my own.
We don't take that lightly.
So in that culture, if you eat at their table, they are responsible for you like their own parent.
We don't do that, not like that to that extent, but that's what they do.
So you understand, whenever
Early Church in Acts 2, they didn't just grow through events.
They became hospitable.
They died together.
They ate together.
And they grew through embracing one another.
And that's how the Early Church grew.
If you look in Acts 2, 42 through 47, you'll see that it says this.
They devoted themselves to fellowship, shared meals, food from house to house, breaking bread, and they opened their homes daily.
Now that section in Acts isn't talked about a lot.
It talks about how the church grew daily, but it doesn't talk about that they went to each other's homes every day to break bread together.
And they fellowshiped together, which means they were responsible for each other, which is why the scripture passes there said they showed and shared everything in commonality together.
Because they were responsible for one another.
And so they shared everything commonly.
We would go, well, that doesn't make sense for them.
It's like this is natural.
We are family.
And that's what family does.
We share together our resources.
And so when we read that, now all of a sudden it sounds a little different.
See, for us, if we go to a business or a store, there's a department or a division
that talks about how to welcome people, training for hospitality, things like that.
Hospitality for them wasn't an apartment.
It was a discipleship practice.
If you really want to disciple and let people know about God, you have to be hospitable in a way that they understand.
You mean to be really intentional about it and really hospitable, not just
say you are.
In Romans chapter 12, verses 10 through 13, it says, take a constant interest in the needs of God's beloved people, and eagerly welcome people as guests into your home.
We are so busy, we barely have time to eat with ourselves and our own families, let alone people who are not.
But true hospitality is an attitude.
It's a culture mindset.
It's not an activity.
Whether they were going to host to be hospitable, it's not like that.
It's an overflow of who you are and the graciousness God puts in you.
The key thing to know here is you must open your arms and your heart to being hospitable before you open your door
to be hospitable to somebody, to be hospitable to somebody.
And that's really important, because when you think about it, we as a church are the same way.
We have to be ready to receive and willing to receive and expect to let people feel welcome.
We have to know that we're willing and ready.
And I'll tell you why, because
If you say you have an open door policy, which you and I met through church says we have open doors.
You better back it up.
And you better back it up with the right kind open door policy.
I'm gonna tell you two kinds of open door policy.
One of them wasn't so good an experience I had and one that's pretty good.
When I was younger, I was in seminary and I worked at a Turner Hospital.
which, you know, for those and recovering things like that, but this was for all ages, and it was all residential.
And they said, our company here has an open door policy.
Well, every office door was open, and so when I was new, I like to meet people, right?
I like shake their hands.
So every day I go by, every in the area of office, and hey, how you doing?
How you doing?
Before I go into my work.
I found out their open door policy is not an open door policy.
It just means we have to keep our doors open to look like we're friendly.
But we really don't want to be disturbed.
Someone had to tell me that because I didn't understand that an open door policy really was just for looks.
If this for looks, people will be able to tell pretty quick.
But I was one of those young guys in the ministry that I had done in the early 20s.
I didn't have much boundaries or know what event to have an open door policy and not go in.
I thought I meant it's open.
I got to go in.
So you want me there, but that's not how that works.
Now, the other situation is where I work now.
We have an open door policy there.
Anybody depend on anybody on any level at any time and the office doors where are administrative and transportation folks are all open.
You can even walk through their offices to get to the other side if you want.
It's a very strange environment compared to the other open door policy.
But in this case, it's actually a real open door policy.
You can go and see anybody anytime as long as they don't have someone in there for the door shut, meaning they have a meeting going on.
I like that.
But there are some people who don't want open door policies.
So if you try to come into their office and say, I'm busy.
But if what you have is what they're supposed to be doing, you still got to offer it to them.
But the attitude is what I'm doing is more important.
And I'm going to isolate and leave me alone.
I just want to get quiet.
That's not an open door policy.
I'm going to keep my door open, but don't come in policy.
So when we say, as a church, we have open doors, what we mean is that our heart is ready.
Our arms are ready.
that we are prepared for that.
You know, I met this church, I think, should have said open doors, open hearts and open arms rather than open minds because open minds give me the wrong impression because it means, well, our mind is open to whatever you want to do.
That's not what we're about.
We're going to love you as you are and trust that Jesus can help you be who he wants you to be.
which is what he does for each of us, right?
So I didn't really like when they came out of that policy, when they put open minds, they said open arms.
I have a question why society is changing so rapidly.
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
But if you don't have an open heart, you're not gonna have open arms, and you're definitely not gonna have open doors.
I don't know about you, but I personally like a place where I'm still welcome.
I do.
And it's important to me to let folks know that I'm glad they're there.
And I hope that's important to you too.
Doors,
have a spiritual statement to make, whether they're open or closed.
In John chapter 10, Jesus says, I am the door.
Whoever comes to me to go in and out and find a pastor, I am the door to the Father.
He does not say, I close to these folks.
I open to these folks.
He says, whoever comes to me,
I will bless because you come to me because you know who I am.
So each church door symbolizes the invitation of Jesus and He's the door to God.
And when people walk through the door of a church, they expect or hope that they're going to have an account of a God.
That's why we come to experience God.
Open doors means
or as opposed to me, no invisible barriers of class, age, background, favoritism, or anything else, just fellowship.
Welcome and an expectancy to be loved, to be cared for, to be understood, and to be seen as valuable.
In Hebrews chapter 13, it says, is the spot hospitality that you have your door open, be ready,
with a meal or a bed when it's needed.
Some have extended hospitality to angels without even knowing it.
That's hospitality.
That's what an open heart and an open door does.
I want to say it like this.
Hospitality is a ministry of anticipation.
Now that kind of sounds kind of
technical, but I'll say it again and explain what I mean.
Hospitality is a ministry of anticipation, which means that you're ready for whatever.
You're not going, well, when you get here and you come, then we'll figure out what to do with you.
We already know because we have then considered ahead of time that you might come and that we might know how to help you feel welcome.
So, what are we anticipating?
What do we expect when we come to church?
Do we need to update our expectations?
I ask myself this question often.
What do I expect to happen to church today?
What do I expect is going to happen?
I was preaching in Cara, Illinois, that church now closed.
And on the back wall, if you all have been in the church, you know it's when I'm in front of you.
It says, expect your Americans today.
They're like 15 people in the church.
It looked like they were expecting just to get there and survive and go home.
It did not look like anybody was anticipating a miracle when I'm going.
Okay, so are they wanting that to be their culture?
or their expectation, or they just wish it was.
What do you expect when you walk into church?
Do you think God can do whatever's possible by the Holy Spirit action here today or anytime you come, no matter what it might be?
Do you expect God to move and make changes in lives and heal people here today?
It's a good question, isn't it?
The other question I ask myself is, what do I think won't happen?
By that I mean do I really think people are going to do this or that or are they going to, God's not going to do anything here today.
What is your expectation?
The reason this is so important in hospitality and welcoming people is because of our arms of welcome.
If you understand hospitality the way Jesus and those folks did,
you'll understand why arms are so important and open arms are important in our scripture.
If you look at the story of the prodigal son, just for one example, in Luke 1520 it says, a father saw his son, ran and embraced him.
Before he ever said an apology, before he ever got his life right, he just wanted to be enslaved in his father's house, a sermon, but his father
opened his arms and welcomed him, not because of the quality of his son and what he's all about, but because of the quality of Father's heart, always expecting his son to be welcome.
Even if his brother or anybody else would not, the Father would.
To have the Father's heart is to live like the Father lived of that son.
So welcoming people into the family of God
is not contingent on somebody's worthiness.
It's driven by compassion.
We want to help people have lives that are better, to boost them, to give them a better day, to lift their spirits.
Sometimes that's what we do in our own form.
Church is often stand at the window of the parable of the prodigal son
and they're watching for the lost, but few of them open the door and run down the road to find them.
The ones that do the churches that do become places of healing, and they expect that.
You can tell the difference between a church going through the motions and a church in motion.
Their churches
today that are saying that what church is?
You go on Sunday and then you go home and you come back the next Sunday.
That's a church going through the motions.
That's not a church in motion.
The reason I think that and see that is because if your relationship with God is on Sunday at the church, what do you do with him the rest of the week?
Are you no longer the church?
Are you no longer active in what he's asking you to do?
Good questions we need to think about.
What kind of church do we want to be?
We have an excellent foundation in our community.
We have a reputation that is amazing.
Stellar.
People love this church.
We love this church.
And it's such a good thing to have.
So what do we want it to be?
We have to always be thinking about how do you make sure that that increases
for grows that we do well and continue to be well.
Now what kind of church has God asked us to be?
What does He call us to be?
The kind of church we are is based on the culture that we establish here.
Let me explain what I mean by that.
It's a culture of indentation that matters.
A welcoming culture is built
on intentionalized listening ears, open hands, and warm words.
That helps create culture.
In our verses today it says, walk in the wisdom of God.
Let every word you speak be drenched with grace.
What do we mean by that?
It was a lady.
I'll never forget, as long as I have a memory, who taught me what grace is and what the language of love is.
I've never forgotten.
Sitting out a little bit of history, I used to sing at the nursing homes all over the place, selling it on here in Paducah for years.
Well, I went down to Mississippi and passed when I started doing it down there.
And you ever want to get your name out there and be famous, that's not the way to do it.
But if you want to serve, they are very appreciative.
It's very appreciative that you come and give up your time because they don't pay you.
They are just glad you came.
But one particular lady was probably the most gracious person I've ever met.
And we were in the central area of the nursing home where I played and sang, set a couple words of scripture and gave them some encouraging words, finished
And then I went and shook.
Everybody's hanging.
Every single time.
Like I do here.
But I just do that.
I like to do that.
And it's one lady.
Bless her heart.
Miss Georgia.
I get to her and she goes, oh, you are so wonderful.
I appreciate you so much.
Thank you for coming.
And I went, man, I was trying to bless her and she just blessed me.
So the next time I win,
I said, I'm gonna help Grace here.
I'm a good shit honor.
And so, see what she does with it, right?
So, I went around shaking hands at the end of the time and George was there and I come up to George and I go, you are so wonderful.
I know you've encouraged people to come up.
I thank you so much for doing that.
She goes, you know, I just love to help and be gracious with people and, you know, it's such a good thing you're doing here.
And I just want people to be blessed by it.
So thank you.
And she did it again.
She outgraced me.
I said, what can I do?
What can I do?
How can I show her that I know what this is all about?
I don't know what I do.
I'll go to the artistic, not the artistic, the, I just lost the word.
Will you lose your mind?
Memory.
Y'all.
Oxygen.
All cybers, yes.
I knew it was an A word.
had one of those moments.
So I decided to ask the nurses, if I could play them, and they said, listen, they won't bring up your venue at five, and it's actually a guy.
And you could sing the same song three times in a row, and they wouldn't know it.
Why would you want to do that?
They won't even know what you did.
I said, for a moment, they will.
So I went over to Georgia after I played that time, and I said, hey, Georgia.
Georgia.
I'm going to go over to that all-time away.
I'm going to play there next time she goes, you're learning, man.
And I went, God, I don't know.
She knew what I was doing.
Grace does that.
So I played the wing and went over there.
And I was so blessed by it.
And I found her in a capture and I kneeled down beside.
Is it Georgian?
Yeah, it was wonderful.
We laughed together.
We cried together.
We prayed together.
And it was such a great thing.
And she said, that's it.
That's it.
Nothing expected.
Nothing in return.
You just gave yourself.
That's it.
She knows.
That's hospitality.
That's the language of grace.
That's the language of love.
This lady knew it.
And she wasn't just being patronizing.
So glad you're here.
I recognize, I honor you.
And I was so thankful that she did that.
People in nursing homes do this when they understand for each other because they know they have a family there.
They're not going anywhere.
This is where they're going to end their life.
So when I make each other's lives better, I'll grace one of them.
And they don't want their home to be harsh.
Georgia taught me that.
So we have to overcome the walls of resistance within, if we have them.
Fear, fatigue, past disappointments.
They build walls, but they keep others out too, and they trap us inside them.
When it says in Ephesians 2, 14, Jesus came to break down those metal walls of division.
The things that separate, and this is between Jew and Gentile, and in our culture today, in our society,
Breaking down the vision between Jewish people and non-Jewish right now would be gigantic.
To see Jesus do that again.
Does he can?
So if Jesus could tear down walls between Jews and Gentiles, do you think he could tear down invisible ones between old members and new neighbors?
between people who don't know each other that well, or are at odds with each other.
Don't they need to tear them down?
I've been in churches where members of that same church have been going for years.
They won't speak to each other.
Is that an example in culture of what we want?
That it's okay?
That's love?
That's mercy?
That's forgiveness?
That's grace?
Is that the culture you would like to see established and say, this is our church.
We don't talk to each other, but we hear you every Sunday.
I don't think so.
Would you like to have a message of healing or disparity in the faith?
That's what we're talking about.
But we have a blessing of an open church.
In Acts 28, it says Paul, the apostle, we seeked all who came to him.
Open our churches, become centers of transformational expectation.
This is what I was talking about a little bit ago.
Every time we open the door,
Literally or relationally, we're creating space for God to do His best work.
And if we expect God to show up and do something, raise God.
Thank God for that.
If you're hurting or you're struggling or you have a sickness and you come into your church and you think, well, I'm just going to go to church and maybe God will heal me when I get home or something, but you don't expect that maybe God can meet you here today.
that you could have a miracle here today or the Holy Spirit could actually work during our church service and do something.
But if you don't expect that, you won't look for it or recognize it if he's trying to build it.
So the question we have to ask ourselves is this.
Can we recognize when the Holy Spirit is working and what's it look like?
Fanny Crosby says, while on others our calling do not pass me by.
How are you going to know when the Holy Spirit is calling on someone?
You always can't tell.
Not always.
Sometimes you just don't know them.
When you expect God to show up in miracles that happen, that's a good environment for them to happen.
We can create that culture.
So if you want to be a culture center and have four things for you, they're very easy, not difficult.
As a matter of fact, you can implement them, most of them today.
The first one is this.
If you want to set a culture being hospitable, invite one new person or a family to lunch after church or during the week, this week, whether it's a person here or a person out in the community,
so you can begin to be a hospital.
And buy under your house and actually want them there, you know?
That's one way to begin to reach out.
That's a discipleship move that the disciples did regularly.
The second thing, you can help us overview our ministry here at the church.
Give us a, if you will, a bird's eye view or a view of what it's like to be here.
By that, I mean,
audit us for a little bit.
With a critical eye, from the moment you get to the church, from the moment you leave, what is it like?
Are we doing well with the welcoming process?
Do we have good signage?
Do we have good follow-up?
Is the seeming understood?
Do we feel like we can sit anywhere?
Do we guys sit in certain spot?
You know, what is it that feels safe for someone who's new?
We have people who greet us and welcome us.
And what's the service like in the field in the full?
Is the worship inviting and engaging?
Is the message practical for our life?
All these things, if we look at that, and how do we communicate what our expectations are for worship?
And for service, do we clearly talk about service opportunities and how to be involved?
And if we look at that, if you're willing to look at those things and say, hey, here's what we're doing really good,
Here's some areas we can improve.
That would be helpful because it gives us expecting to be better at things because we want people to experience better.
That's hospitality.
You want to be gracious.
Third thing.
In your ability to show leadership, you can be approachable and invisible.
Now I don't.
When I was growing up, mayor of the town, sat in the back corner of the church, was close to the door, as soon as the benediction was amened out the door.
Now, I used to think, because it was a popular guy, but I asked him, well, they asked, why are you at least a citizen?
I'm being the Baptist at a restaurant.
But what if, in town, every Sunday was to greet everybody here and see how they're doing?
You know, it might take a while to get out of here, but the culture after church, you would feel like you're actually participating in lives.
The folks here are folks you don't see throughout the week, and some of us, that's true.
And then, see what the pastor or anyone needs, either before or after the service, anything I can do, the way I can help, the mid-reader.
You know, it's a bright day when someone offers me their help with whatever they're able to do.
Sometimes someone will ask and it's just the offering to help that encourages me and keeps me going on a tough day.
And sometimes the help is very much appreciated and needed and speaks volumes.
So that's something you can do.
The fourth thing is prayer.
A very, very simple prayer.
It's a hunger for spiritual renewal and fire, but this is the prayer.
Send people we can love well.
Lord, send us people we can love well.
It's very simple prayer.
You can pray that prayer and you really be in it.
It means God is going to show us who we can love well and help us to do that.
So I think we need to be asking ourselves those things I've mentioned today and looking inside ourselves at how we expect church to be in our part in that.
Listen, I can teach evangelism, courses, discipleship, inner healing work, how to open up the movement of Holy Spirit's healing and forgiveness work, creating a culture of expectation.
I can teach all that.
But do we need that?
What do we need to be the church that people are going to say, thank you.
We already are, but we can always improve and I want to know what it is.
Will you, this week,
take time to ponder these things, I would say.
And I don't mean, like, stress out about pondering it, but what I would ask you to do is just think about these things.
And the next time you see me say, faster, I'm thinking about it.
You want to use my word, say, faster, I'm pondering.
And you say that, same thing.
And if you have something you come over with, by only these.
I am ready to hear it.
I have open arms, open heart, and my door is an open door policy.
Mr. President, Lord, thank you for welcoming us.
Thank you for welcoming me when I was far from you.
Teach me to carry that same grace to others that we would be a place of restoration.
Let our church be known for open doors and our arms are open.
May every person who walks through these doors, sense your love before they ever hear a single word said.
Amen.
I draw your attention back to the verse.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are on the outside redeeming the time, but also praying for us that God would open to us a door for the word.
And this morning, I'm thankful